

##

---

## 


---

## Prepare Mindset

- Think about what we want to achieve today
- `What things I learnt from previous practices?`
- `What I want to improve or pay attention to today?`
- Be focused on the practice and listen carefully about the instructions, everytime we learn new things


---

## Check body condition

- Check if body is in good condition, muscles, arms, torso, legs, feet, etc.
- Check if we're hydrated.
- Tape the injured spot.


---

## Prepare your equipments before practice, check list

- Two or three Shinai (竹刀)
- check the Shinai condition
- Tsubadome (鍔止め)
- Bokuto, Tachi and Kotachi
- Gi and Hakama
- Tare and Do
- a pair of Kote, don't mix with two left Kote or two right Kote
- Men
- Tenugui
- Protectors


---

## Prepare water



---

## Safety of practice

- We don't want to get injured
- We don't want to injury our fellow practioners
- If people got injured it will take weeks or months to recover, and back to practice


---

## Check Shinai

- We should check our Shinai condition *before*, *after*, and *in* practice
- No cracks
- No fractures
- String (弦 つる) is tight
- 中結 is tight, and in correct position
- Kensen (剣先), tip of shinai is intact
- **Never** use a broken Shinai
- **Never** use a suspecious Shinai for Tsuki
- Pay some attention to your opponent's Shinai, if you find it's broken let them know and switch it


---

## Maintain Shinai

- Suggest to fully untie Shinai and check both inside and outside, many crasks are hidden inside
- Prepare at least **Two** Shinai, **Three** would be better
- Write your name or any identifier on Tsuka


---

## Protect Wrist and Elbow

- Especially the right wrist which is the target for Kote, and right elbow which is close to the right Do
- Tie the Do corectly to protect our torso
- Make sure the left side and right side are at the same height
- Make sure the Do Himo can firmly hold the Do
- For elbow and wrist, you can find protectors frm some Kendo supplier
- It's for people who got bruise frequently
- We should find the opportunity to strike the Do, not because we want to which will injure your friends.


---

## Kata and BKKK Safety

- It's hard for new practioners to control their Bokuto, so be careful of how they swing
- Keep enough distance between praction pairs, make sure they won't interfere and injury people nearby.


---

## Men pad

- Some people don't understand how to control their arm or hand power, so we may need Men pad
- Prevent concussion


---

## About Suburi

- Suburi is the basic of Kendo. Doing Suburi in a right path will get improved faster, otherwise it won't get improved.
- It's not easy to check if we're doing right just by feeling because our eyes cannot see ourselves directly.
- Get some feedbacks, like getting advide from Sensei, replaying video taps, using mirror, getting advice from fellows, etc.
- But getting feedbacks is not enough, we need to know why, why the advice works.
- At some time, we can feel how mind coodiates with the body, and how leg muscles, torso, arms, bones coordinate with each other, then we can control them for a good strike.


---

## Kamae Grip

- Use left and right hands' palm to hold the sword
- Left hand should be naturally in front of abdomen, about 1 fist away
- Both hand should hold the Shinai over the top
- Both hand should hold Shinai tightly using middle, ring, and pinky finger
- The thumb and index finger should not squeeze the Shinai


---

## Kamae Foot position

- Both feet should point forward
- The left-to-right distance of two feet should be about the shoulder width
- Keep left heel up, and be ready to push the body
- Check where center of gravity (重心) is, the distribution of weight, it should be easy to push the body forward, and not lose balance


---

## Kamae Body posture

- Upper body should be straight, not lean forward or backward
- Shoulders should be relaxed
- Body should be facing forward, not to the left, not to the right
- Face directly to the opponent


---

## Kamae eyes

- Look at the whole picture of opponent
- Feel their tendency and mindset


---

## Kamae Shinai/Bokuto position

- The blade should be facing down
- Tip of Shinai (Kensen) should point to the center between opponent's eyes or, one eye, or throat
- This way they feel pressure (攻め)


---

## Kamae Mind (ki 気)

- Be ready for strike or counter strike
- Control breath
- Always watch the whole body of the opponent, not at a small area like Men, or Kote, or Do.


---

## Suburi Body work

- Push left leg first to initiate a cut
- Mind focus on footwork more, less on hand work
- Always use foot power to drive torso movement, and spread the power to hand to Kensen (tip of Shinai) for swing
- Tense shoulders block the power from torso
- Feel center of gravity
- Feel power spreading across the body
- It takes time to feel how to use body muscles


---

## Suburi Cut (Strike)

- Use arm and elbow to swing the shinai, use power from torso
- Keep elbow close to body line, the elbow should move up and down, not left, not right.
- When striking, right leg should catch up and the body is back to kamae position, 冴え, for next strike
- The momentum of 冴え, adds additional power for clean cut.
- **Relax** a bit of hands and arms after each strike, no hammer strike.
- The trajectory of Shinai, should follow the blade. If not we will break a real Katana's blade, 刃筋
- Use Monouchi to hit the target, not too deep, not too shallow.
- The correct area of Monouchi depends on the size of target, Kote is the smallest, Do is the biggest.
- Kiai means a spirit of dedication, show to both ourselves and opponents
- Kiai is also the easy way to synchronize the mind and body
- Kiai is like incantation of magic. High rank Kenshi with strong Ki like advanced magicians sometimes skip the chanting


---

## Zanshin

- Prepare for the next cut
- Review all things we did after practice


---

## Katate suburi 片手技



---

## Training mindset

The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeing new sights, but in looking with new eyes. (Marcel Proust)


---

## Why mindset matters a lot?

- The mind determines how we perceive things and how we think.
- The way we think influences the decisions, the choices we make.
- Our decisions shape our actions.
- What we have done and what we will do define ourselves and shape our future.


---

## What is mind?

- Mind is a powerful simulation tool that help us understand the world around us.


---

## Know ourselves, then we know which and how to improve

- knowing what I'm thinking
- knowing what I'm doing
- knowing the consequence of my actions


---

## Be a good communicator

- When we don't know if we're doing right or wrong, we need ask
- Before ask we think. think about our question, try to find our answers
- Communicate after thinking help us understand more things than just get feedback
- When we are taught by Sensei, reply if we hear it or understand it
- Communicate with the Sensei makes them know if they are communicating with us efficiently
- If we don't say anything, **no one** knows if we understand or not


---

## Mind is in a loop

- the mind as a feedback system has internal loops


---

## The cycle of improvement

- Be honest to ourselves
- Know ourself, how we do and how we think
- Know our good habit and bad habit
- Try to find a way to correct bad habit
- Try to improve good habit


---

## Focus meanwhile Relax

- Focus on the training and practice.
- Relax help us understand, because stubborn prevents us from improving
- Don't add pressure to ourselves, normally the pressure is not from opponent, but it's the refletion of our fearness.


---

## What is the mindset we're looking for?

- How to set goal and evaluate the goal
- How to solve problem by split hard one to easy pieces
- Self leadership
- Self improving
- Self learning
- Self awareness
- Self evaluation
- Cooperate with people
- enjoy and have fun


---

## Waza terms

- 表 Omote, mototachi no hidari
- 里 Ura, mototachi no migi
- 右 Migi, right
- 左 Hidari, left
- 身構え Migamae
- 気構え kigamae


---

## Ippon Uchi no Waza  一本打ちの技

- Men
- Kote
- Do
- Tsuki


---

## Shikake waza 仕掛け技



---

## Renzoku waza 二・三段の, 連続技

- Men-Men
- Kote-Men 小手・面
- Kote-Do
- Do-Men
- Men-Do 面・胴
- Kote-Men-Men 小手・面・面
- Kote-Men-Do 小手・面・胴
- Kote-Men-Do-Men
- 突き・面
Men can be both SHOMEN or SAYU-MEN


---

## Harai 払い技

- Harai-Men
- Harai-Kote
Variations
- Harai(age) 払い
- Osae 押さえ
- Uchiotoshi 打ち落とし
- Hari 張り
- Maki 巻き
From Omote or from Ura


---

## Hiki 引き技

- HIKI-Men
- HIKI-Kote
- HIKI-Do


---

## Oji waza 応じ技



---

## Nuki waza 抜き技

- Men-Nuki-Do
- Men-Nuki-Hidari-Do
- Men-Nuki-Kote
- Men-Nuki-Men
- Kote-Nuki-Men


---

## Suriage 擦り上げ技

- Men-Suriage-Men (OMOTE, URA)
- Kote-Suriage-Men (OMOTE, URA)
- Kote-Suriage-Kote
- Men-Suriage-Do


---

## Debana 出鼻

- Debana-Men
- Debana-Kote


---

## Kaeshi 返し技

- Men-Kaeshi-Do
- Kote-Kaeshi-Men
- Men-Kaeshi-Men
- Do-Kaeshi-Men


---

## Uchiotoshi 打ち落とし

- Ai-Kote-Men
- Do-uchiotoshi-Men
- Men-Uchiotoshi-Men


---

## Why kendo?

- In life, a lot of things take days, months, years, then you **MAY** get feedback about if you're doing right or doing wrong.
- Kendo is in another way, if you're doing wrong then you know it (feedback) immediately. That's a good test field to learn the meta knowledge of improvement.
- Human society takes millions of years and collects myriads of knowledge that support our modern life
- If we want to reinvent from scratch that is impossible
- The best way is to learn from our predecessors.
- It's not free lunch, we still need understand the logic behind these knowledge and invention, in this way we can know the context and how to use them.


---

## Why this project

- It helps me check which I understand which I don't, - It helps me check the knowledge I know how to use and which I don't.
- This buildup helps me walk on the right paths of improvement, not the paths which repeat same errors.


---

## Purpose of this project

Kendo knowledge are stored in people's minds, books, online videos, blogs, etc.
When we face a question, we may struggle to find them.
This project is trying to make answer searching a bit easier.
After we know the answer, the next step is to understand them. One day we may find a better answer.


---

## What we're looking for in a video

- If the foot work is right
- If the body work is right
- If the arm moving and Shinai trajectory is right
- If the cutting angle (Hasuji)
- Check mindset at the moment and spirit
- Find **one or two** points that can be improved, especially the easy points


---

## Videos provide different angle to see ourselves

At practice, we can only see things in front.
Video records provide the way to see ourselves in the same moment but in different view.
We can use videos to check which parts we're doing right and which parts we're doing wrong
what is our strength and what is our weakness.
Even we got feedback from different Sensei and different people, if we cannot see what we're doing, we cannot understand.
Checking the difference between what is right as we know and what we are doing, then we can understand the comments.
Without understanding, the improvement is impossible.


---

## Recording Kamae

- Where is the kensen pointing
- Are both the feet facing forward
- How the foot push forward


---

## Recording Suburi

- See left hand's position when swing the Shinai and when cutting
- See if hands move first or body moves first?
- Sae **冴え**, does left foot catch up when cutting?
- Tenouchi or hammer-strike
- Where is center of gravity
- Shoulder tense


---

## There are many people in this video. How to know where am I?

- If you cannot tell where you're, maybe have your name on Kendo-Gi or Hakama.
- Advanced people can easily identify themselves, because I guess they watched themselves many times


---

## I have the video but it didn't catch the key part

- Try recording next time
- We cannot expect one video can catch everything
- Sometimes it's just because we were faraway from the camera in practice


---

## I forgot recording today, what should I do?

- It's ok, the good and bad habits repeat themselves, we can catch it next time.


---

## Where to store the video?

Video files are normally big and are about 1 ~ 2 hours.
Several factors help us to decide which method to choose:
- File size
- Cost
- Easy access video
- Privacy
- Sharing


---

## Store videos on personal computer or cell phone

- We can easily access the file
- It has limited storage
- If the device is broken, the video could be lost
- It' hard to share with other people


---

## Store videos on Portable HDD or SSD

- We can easily access the file
- It normally has bigger storage
- If the device is broken, the video could be lost
- It's a bit hard to share with many people


---

## Store videos on Cloud storage

- Normally has big storage
- Need download then access the data
- Need pay monthly or annual fee
- Easy to share with others
- Need internet access


---

## Store videos on Youtube

- Unlimited storage space
- Can access videos anywhere, but need internet access
- Need take time to upload the video
- Need set video as `unlisted` to share with other people, the data are still exposed to anyone
- It has privacy issue.
- I suggest to hide very old videos.
- the company may use your video to train their AI


---

## Although we say Ki Ken Tai, Tai usually should be before Ken, so Ki Tai Ken (気体剣)



---
